### 思想解释

#### 打表

将小范围结果计算出来，直接在程序中调用，用空间换时间

#### 递推

大部分算法都是有递推规则的，根据规则编写仅适合这一道题的程序

#### 随机选择

### 类型练习

#### 1093

**题目：Count PAT's**

The string `APPAPT` contains two `PAT`'s as substrings. The first one is formed by the 2nd, the 4th, and the 6th characters, and the second one is formed by the 3rd, the 4th, and the 6th characters.

Now given any string, you are supposed to tell the number of `PAT`'s contained in the string.

*Input Specification:*

Each input file contains one test case. For each case, there is only one line giving a string of no more than 105 characters containing only `P`, `A`, or `T`.

*Output Specification:*

For each test case, print in one line the number of `PAT`'s contained in the string. Since the result may be a huge number, you only have to output the result moded by 1000000007.

*Sample Input:*

> APPAPT

*Sample Output:*

> 2

**思路：**根据递推思想，组成"PAT"的个数就是字符'A'左边'P'的个数乘右边'T'的个数

- 遍历字符串求出每个字符左边P的个数

- 反向遍历，遇到T计数器+1，遇到A累加相乘取模

**代码：**

```C++
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

const int mod = 1000000007;
int main()
{
    string str;
    cin >> str;
    int len = str.length();
    int countP[100000] = {0};

    for (int i = 0; i < len; i++) //获取每个位置左侧字符'P'的个数
    {
        if (i > 0)
        {
            countP[i] = countP[i - 1];
        }
        if (str[i] == 'P')
        {
            countP[i]++;
        }
    }

    int ans = 0, countT = 0;
    for (int i = len - 1; i >= 0; i--)
    {
        if (str[i] == 'T')
        {
            countT++; //累计T
        }
        if (str[i] == 'A') //遇到'A'便相加取模
        {
            ans = (ans + countT * countP[i]) % mod;
        }
    }
    cout << ans;
    system("pause");
    return 0;
}
```

#### 1101

**题目：Quick Sort**

There is a classical process named **partition** in the famous quick sort algorithm. In this process we typically choose one element as the pivot. Then the elements less than the pivot are moved to its left and those larger than the pivot to its right. Given N distinct positive integers after a run of partition, could you tell how many elements could be the selected pivot for this partition?

For example, given N=5 and the numbers 1, 3, 2, 4, and 5. We have:

- 1 could be the pivot since there is no element to its left and all the elements to its right are larger than it;

- 3 must not be the pivot since although all the elements to its left are smaller, the number 2 to its right is less than it as well;

- 2 must not be the pivot since although all the elements to its right are larger, the number 3 to its left is larger than it as well;

- and for the similar reason, 4 and 5 could also be the pivot.

Hence in total there are 3 pivot candidates.

*Input Specification:*

Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line gives a positive integer N (≤105). Then the next line contains N distinct positive integers no larger than 109. The numbers in a line are separated by spaces.

*Output Specification:*

For each test case, output in the first line the number of pivot candidates. Then in the next line print these candidates in increasing order. There must be exactly 1 space between two adjacent numbers, and no extra space at the end of each line.

*Sample Input:*

> 5
1 3 2 4 5

*Sample Output:*

> 3
1 4 5

**思路：**双向遍历，保留每个数字左边的最大值和右边的最小值，最后遍历判断是否大于左边最大值并小于右边最小值

**代码：**

```C++
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main()
{
    int n;
    cin>>n;
    int leftMax[n], rightMin[n], arr[n];
    int ans[n], num = 0;
    for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
    {
        cin >> arr[i];
    }
    leftMax[0] = 0;
    for (int i = 1; i < n; i++)
    {
        leftMax[i] = max(leftMax[i - 1], arr[i - 1]);
    }
    rightMin[n - 1] = 0x3fffffff;
    for (int i = n - 2; i >= 0; i--)
    {
        rightMin[i] = min(rightMin[i + 1], arr[i + 1]);
    }
    for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
    {
        if (leftMax[i] < arr[i] && rightMin[i] > arr[i])
        {
            ans[num++] = arr[i];
        }
    }
    cout << num << endl;
    for (int i = 0; i < num; i++)
    {
        cout << ans[i];
        if (i < num - 1)
        {
            cout << " ";
        }
    }
    cout << endl;
    system("pause");
    return 0;
}
```